okay I thought I'd make a video on
cleaning panfish so anyway this is a
ready or sunfish looks like it's close
to 11 inches so it's a pretty nice one
and let me see if I can get the camera
set down at the right angle here Accord
this anyway okay first we go behind
their ear make a cut down to the spine
and just through the stomach and make
sure it's cut all the way through here
or you have problems later then you can
start on the back and right along the
spine just put the tip in mostly the tip
you don't want to go in too far and as
you ride the ribs down when they come to
an end you can actually push the knife
through and finish it off towards the
tail then the next cut will be back from
the bottom through the stomach to the
cut that we first made now pull this up
a little bit just use the tip of the
knife most of the time and try to go
right along the ribs and just let the
point of the knife ride the ribs okay
now they're exposed a little bit not
sure if we can see that in this light
but once they get exposed then you have
to cut through the top of the rib bones
with just the tip of the knife because
if you go down too far then we're going
to mess up the filet so now you got to
take your time and ride the ribs I have
a slight sawing motion
and there's one side and here's another
knife to do the skinning so start there
leave just a little bit on the tail so
you got something to hang on to and
again you want to make a sawing motion
okay so we don't need the skin and
there's the fillet there's a little bits
got to be cleaned up on there but
basically you want to have all of that
rib meat some people kind of miss that
that's why it's really important to ride
the ribs and take your time as you're
coming down when you're scaling that
because now the only bones that are in
this filet there's just a tiny Roe right
in here and a lot of people think that
those cook up sometimes I cook them out
when I'm cooking them myself but anyway
there's one side of the filet now I'll
do the other again right behind the ear
makes the first cut don't go through the
spine though come up here up to the
belly but leave just a little bit there
because it's easier to stick the knife
in when you're doing this bottom cut and
cut through the belly using mostly just
the tip of the knife once you comes into
the ribs you can push through all the
way through then take your time and let
the knife do the work now this time you
come up the backside but mostly just the
tip of the knife until you can feel
those ribs and pull it up see what we
got here get to the bottom of the rib
section and then just the tip of the
knife I'm not sure if camera is
recording that well but just ride that
the curve of those ribs and then
downward then it exposes the first bone
we want it to just use the tip of the
knife and then cut through those all the
way to the head so that filet then
should roll over like that now ride the
ribs down very slowly in a sawing motion
okay so there's what looks like now
there's our skinned fish and you
shouldn't have any meat left on those
bones those bones should be exposed like
that so then for skinning once again
just make just leave a little bit there
so you got something to hold on to
okay where's the Flay there's the skin
not much left on there then I find it's
helpful to have a hose handy and after
you rinse it you have a nice perfect
fillet and that's what the finished
product should look like I hope this
helps